- Is a programming paradigm based on the concept of objects.
	- Paradigm - style of the code, "how" we write and organize code
- We use objects to <mark style="background: #650BB3;">model</mark> (describe) real-world (user or todo list item) or abstract (HTML component or data structure) features.
- Objects may contain data (properties) and code (methods). By using objects, we pack <mark style="background: #650BB3;">data and the corresponding behaviour</mark> into one block.
- In OOP, objects are self-contained pieces/blocks of code.
- Objects are building blocks of applications, and interact with one another.
- Interactions happen through a public interface (API): methods that the code <mark style="background: #650BB3;">outside</mark> of the object can access and use to communicate with the object.
- OOP was developed with the goal of <mark style="background: #650BB3;">organizing</mark> code, to make it <mark style="background: #650BB3;">more flexible and easier to maintain</mark> (avoid "spaghetti code"). 

### Classes and Instances (Traditional OOP)
#### Class  
- Like a blueprint from which we can create new objects.
#### Instance 
- A real object that we can use in our code which was created from a class(which isn't an object).

### The 4 fundamental OOP principles
#### 1. Abstraction
- Ignoring or hiding details that don't matter, allowing us to get an overview perspective of the thing we're imlpementing, instead of messing with details that don't really matter to our implementation.
#### 2. Encapsulation
- Keeping properties and methods private inside the class, so they are not accessible from outside the class. Some methods can be exposed as a public interface (API).
- Why? - Prevents external code from accidentally manipulating internal properties/state.
#### 3. Inheritance
- Making all properties and methods of a certain class available to a child class, forming a hierarchical relationship between classes. This allows us to reuse common logic and model real-world relationships.
- Child class EXTENDS Parent class
#### 4. Polymorphism
- A child class can overwrite a method it inherited from a parent class(more complex than that)

