JavaScript Engine - Program that executes JS code
Every browser has it's own engine (ex. Google - V8 Engine)
Every JS engine contains a <mark style="background: #650BB3;">call stack</mark> and a <mark style="background: #650BB3;">heap</mark>
### Call stack
Where our code is executed, using an execution context

### Heap
Unstructured memory pool which stores all the objects that our application needs.

CS Sidenote: Compilation vs. Interpretation

##### Compilation - Entire code is converted into machine code at once, and written to a binary file that can be executed by a computer.

Source code - Step 1 | Compilation > Portable file: machine code - Step 2 | Execution > Program running
	Execution can happen way after the compilation

##### Interpretation - Interpreter runs through the source code and executes it line by line.

Source code - Step 1 | Execution line by line > Program running
	Code conversion happens right before execution

##### JavaScript uses just-in-time compilation - Entire code is converted into machine code at once, then executed immediatly.

Source code - Step 1 | Compilation > Machine code (<mark style="background: #650BB3;">NOT</mark> a portable file) - Step 2 | Execution (Happens <mark style="background: #650BB3;">immediatly</mark>) > Program running

### How it all happens in JavaScript
- As a piece of code enters the engine, the first step is to parse the code
	- Parsing means to read the code
- During the parsing proccess, the code is parsed into a data structure named <mark style="background: #650BB3;">AST</mark> (Abstract Syntax Tree) 
	- Works by first splitting up the code into pieces that are meaningful to the language (ex. function, const), and then saving all the pieces into the tree in a structured way, it also checks for syntax errors. The resulted tree will be used to generate machine code.
-  The next step is compilation
	- Takes the generated AST and compiles it into machine code
- This machine code then gets executed right away
- During execution, in modern engines, the engine first generates an unoptimized version of the code, and then starts running an optimization process on the same code, after replacing the old unoptimized code with the new, better optimized version (This can happen multiple times over)
- This all happens in special threads that we cannot access from our code, running separately from our main thread where our code is executing.

### JavaScript Runtime
- Container including all the things that we need to use JavaScript (in this case in the browser)
- Web APIs are functionalitie provided to the engine, accessible on the window object
- Also includes a callback queue
	- A data structure that contains all the callback functions that are ready to be executed (ex. Callback function from DOM event listener)
- The event loop
	- Takes callback functions from the callback queue and puts them in a call stack so that they can be executed
- The event loop is essential for the non-blocking concurrency model
- For nodejs, instead of Web APIs, we have C++ bindings & thread pool