### What is an execution context?
- After the code is compiled, is it ready to be executed. What happens then is that a so called global execution context is created for the top level code
	- Top level code is code that is not inside any functions (ex. a variable, or a function declaration, function bodies are executed only when the they are called)
- The execution context is an enviroment in which a piece of JS is executed. Stores all necessary information for some code to be executed.
- There is always only <mark style="background: #650BB3;">ONE</mark> global execution context - the default context
- When the top level code can be executed, it finally is executed. The computer CPU's processing the machine code that it received.
- After the last step is also finished, functions start to execute aswell. Every function and method get their own execution context, their sum creating the <mark style="background: #650BB3;">call stack</mark>.

### What is inside an execution context?
1. Variable enviroment
	- let, const, var declarations
	- functions
	- arguments object
		- Contains all the arguments that were passed into the function that the current execution context belongs to
2. Scope chain
	- Consists of references to variables that are located outside of the current function 
	- To keep track of the scope chain, it is stored in each execution context
3. <mark style="background: #650BB3;">this</mark> keyword
This is all generated in the so-called "creation phase", right before execution
<mark style="background: #650BB3;">In arrow functions, there is no arguments object or this keyword. They can use them from their closest regular function parent.</mark>

### The Call Stack
"Place" where execution contexts get stacked on top of each other, to keep track of where we are in the execution