### Synchronous code
- Most code is <mark style="background: #650BB3;">synchronous</mark>.
- Synchronous code is executed line by line.
- Each line of code waits for the previous line to finish.
- alert - Long running operations block code execution

Thread of execution
- Part of execution context that actually executes the code in computer's CPU.

## Asynchronous - Coordinating behaviour of a program over a period of time.
### Asynchronous code
- Is executed <mark style="background: #650BB3;">after a task that runs in the "background" finishes</mark>.
- Is <mark style="background: #650BB3;">non-blocking</mark>
- Execution doesn't wait for an asynchronous task to finish its work.
- "An action was defered into the future".
- Callback functions alone do not make code asynchronous.

## AJAX Calls
- Asynchronous JavaScript And XML - Allows us to communicate with remote web servers in an asynchronous way. With AJAX calls, we can request data from web servers dynamically.

## API
- Application Programming Interface - A piece of software that can be used by another piece of software, in order to allow applications to talk to eachother.
- There are many types of APIs in web development - DOM API, Geolocation API, Own Class API.
- "Online" APIs - Application running on a server, that receives requests for data, and sends data back as reponse.
- There is an API for everything

### XML 
- Data format which used to be wildly used to transmit data on the web. We don't use it anymore.
- JSON is the most popular API data format.